All right.
So let's continue our look at inheritance Now before we go on.
There's one important thing you have to understand here.
Override also means open.
So when you use the override key word you're also saying that the function is open and so subclasses
can continue to override that function.
So what happens if you don't want that you know you have a function for example in laser printer lets
say we like the way print model is printing out the model name for laser printers and we want all subclasses
of laser printer to use that version of the print model function.
We want them all to print the name in the same way.
So how will we do that.
Well let's add a subclass.
So we're going to add a subclass called special laser printer.
So I say class special laser printer and it'll just extend laser printer.
Now of course we're going to get some errors here a couple of errors that we had before so you should
know how to fix these.
Now we have a constructor error and a this class cannot be inherited from error.
So the easiest fix is to declare this class open that takes care of the class can't be inherited from.
So now we just have the constructor error.
And of course we're not calling the primary constructor.
And when we extend a class we have to do that.
So let's add a model name string and we'll have to pass that up to the superclasses primary constructor.
So now all of our errors are gone.
OK so right now we can overwrite this print model and we can say override fine print model print line.
You know this is my way of doing it.
Not very helpful.
And we don't want that to be able to happen.
We actually want all the subclasses of laser printer to use its version.
So how do we do that.
Well this is one case where you have to explicitly use the final keyword.
So if you want the buck to stop here for a print model you don't want any of the subclasses to be able
to override it.
Then you stick the final keyword in front and now right away we're going to get an error here saying
that print model and laser printer is fine all and cannot be overridden.
So we'll just get rid of this.
So that's one instance it's one case where you have to explicitly say that something is final because
this override key word implicitly includes open.
So once you've overridden something you're also saying that it's open and if you don't want that you've
got to declare it as final.
All right so getting back to the constructors the primary constructor signatures for the parent and
child classes don't have to match.
Like right now we have them all matching.
They're all taking a model name so let's add another parameter to the laser printers primary constructor
and we'll add an integer.
That is for the number of pages that can be printed per minute.
So we'll say Peepy am in.
And you can see that we don't get any errors here.
But now of course we have an error where we create the instance because we're not passing the page per
minute parameter.
So let's just say this laser printer can print 15 pages per minute.
Now that error goes away.
So this is just to show you that you don't have to match constructor signatures and we saw that before
when we were looking at classes and constructors as well.
Now this is kind of silly right now because we're not actually doing anything with this.
We haven't declared it as a property so it's just being swallowed up.
Right now nothing's happening.
Now when we were looking at classes in constructors we also said that secondary constructors aren't
required as often as they are in Java because of default parameter values.
But let's say we have a secondary constructor in the printer class.
How would we call the secondary constructor from one of the printer classes subclasses.
You can't call a super secondary constructor if you have a primary constructor.
Why not.
Because every constructor has to delegate to the primary constructor.
As we discussed earlier.
So calling a super secondary constructor only makes sense if you don't have a primary constructor.
And if you don't you'd call one of the Soopers secondary constructors by adding a colon in super after
the child's constructor we saw that very briefly at one point.
So because printer has a primary constructor even if it added a secondary constructor here you can't
call that secondary constructor from the primary constructor because you've got to delegate back in
in fact all of the secondary constructors have to delegate back to the primary constructor.
So you can only really call a superclasses secondary constructor when no primary constructors are involved.
So let's just create a couple of even sillier classes to demonstrate this.
So let me just create some space here so you can see what I'm doing.
So we'll say open class or something.
And it's not going to have a primary constructor.
Otherwise everything is going to have to delegate to it and it will say it has a property a string.
And now we're going to create the constructor for this property.
So we'll accept some parameters.
It is also a string.
And we'll just say some property equals an parameter.
I did say these classes were going to be silly.
Ok so now we want a class to subclass something.
So this will be class something else and subclasses something.
There's no deferring of constructor here because there isn't a primary constructor but we will see this
type has a constructor and so it must be initialized here.
Yes we're going to do that by providing a secondary constructor so we'll say some other parameter which
is a string.
And then here we'll pass this up to the secondary constructor of the superclass in a similar way that
we do it for the primary constructor.
So except here we're just calling it Super.
So instead of having the name of the superclass here as we do up here we've got the name of the superclass
and then the parameter that we're going to defer back up to the primary constructor of the superclass
Instead we just use super here and pass it the parameter.
Now again you can only do this if there is no primary constructor because when there is every constructor
has to delegate to the primary constructor.
So if we come up here and we say oh let's have a primary constructor After all we're declare a vowel
X which is an end all of a sudden stuff starts happening here.
This wants to call the primary constructor.
So we'd have to go like this and we'd have to pass an in here.
Why in. and call this with Y.
Now we're having problems with our properties because the primary constructor isn't setting them.
And this of course has a problem because it's saying it once in in now rather than a string and it wants
that because it wants us to delegate to the primary constructor so we'd have to accept it here and as
you can see so we'd say I said it.
And then we're going to go Zad
And then here we've put said
so you can see that that also works for the primary constructor that we can call it using super rather
than call it using the name.
And now the reason that we're having this problem here is because we're not initializing this property
in an attempt block and the primary constructor isn't doing it either.
So it's not good enough to do it in the secondary constructor because all of the time the primary constructor
is going to get called and the primary constructor is expected to initialize all the properties.
So we'd have to probably what we'd want to do is add this property and declare it in a primary constructor.
But if for some reason we didn't want to do that we'd actually have to initialize it here.
And then this would cause problems here because it's a vowel.
So now it's going to be initialized twice because the primary constructor is going to be called from
here already and it's going to initialize it.
So you can see why most of the time you only want a primary constructor and you really only want to
start adding secondary constructors when it's absolutely necessary.
So for a silly class like this we'd probably just move this property up here and just dump the secondary
constructor completely like it would be really strange to accept a property value on a secondary constructor
that the primary constructor isn't doing anything was that actually wouldn't make a lot of sense.
So I was just showing you this for illustration purposes.
But as you can see we can quickly get into trouble if we start trying to split the responsibility between
the primary and secondary constructors.
So in this case I would fix this by taking the secondary constructor away and sticking a property up
there.
Instead I'll just comment it out so we can get rid of errors.
Actually I won't do that because I'm trying to show you primary in the use of secondary constructors
rather So I'm going to bring that out instead I'm going to get rid of the primary constructor and setting
the property here and all this stuff that has to do with primary constructors.
Now some property string and yeah we don't need to do this anymore.
We're just going to get away and go back to what we had before.
The reason I've gone through all of that trouble is because I want to show you that you can of course
include a function body with the secondary constructors.
They don't just have to be simple like this.
They're not like the primary constructors that can't have a body.
So let's do that for the secondary constructor.
So here we've already got one in the superclass but will out of print line here to print line line in
a parents instructor and Milana body here now and say print line.
I'm in the child's constructor.
We still have an error here.
No value pass.
Oh yes thank you compiler for pointing that out to me.
OK so what we expect to see if we create an instance of something else is we expect to see the I'm in
the parent's constructor being run first and then we expect to see the child constructor print line.
Because the super call is going to take place before the body of the child constructor runs.
So let's create an instance in our main function to confirm what I just said.
So logo's something else whatever.
I contend that these classes are really deep.
So let's run that we have an error or error.
Now
there we go.
Everybody's happy now.
OK so let's run
and we'll see that the parent class's constructor runs first and then the child constructor runs so
the second constructor defers to the parent constructor and then the it's own body runs.
Now what about data classes.
We looked at data classes not too long ago is there anything different about them when it comes to inheritance.
Well let's have a look.
So let's declare a new data class and just call it data class and we'll say it just has one property
in it.
And now let's declare this data class open because we want other classes to subclass it.
Well we've already run into a problem it says modifier data is incompatible with open.
And that's because data classes are closed tight.
They can't be extended.
In fact they can even be abstract or inner classes because that wouldn't make sense.
Right if a data class exists just to store state then it doesn't make sense to have it as an abstract
class or an inner class.
Now they can extend other classes but when it comes to inheritance the buck stops right with them.
Now having said that some of the restrictions on data classes were relaxed between Cottman 1.0 and 1.1
for example and 1.1 they couldn't extend other classes and now they can and in Katlin 1.0 they couldn't
contain functions.
The Catlin team relaxed that all those restrictions and Cartland 1.1.
So maybe there will be more changes.
Or maybe not but it's something to keep your eye on if you want to work with data classes and you're
hoping at some point to be able to extend them.
OK I'm going to start the video here and when we come back we'll take a look at interfaces.